# Some Documentation Regarding how I built the Macro pad:
## Case
I originally designed a simple layout for the keyboard, and given it was just ten of the same cutouts, in a plate, in a box, made an stl in openSCAD. From there I had it printed at the university because I knew a student and could therefore use their machines fairly cheaply.
### OpenSCAD
I did the modeling in OpenSCAD, my preferred lightweight modeling software. It uses a java-like language which I've found easy to work in. Also It's open source ツ. I did make one mistake in that  that the border between the switch plates and the holes is wider on one side than the other. The Holes for the switches were designed just by finding a spec sheet for the kailh switches I was using, and booleaning out a spot for them to go.
### FFF 3d printing
The models were sliced using the university's provided settings, and were printed without issue. While I would have been better to do more test fits of the sizing for things like the switch plate height and the pro micro cut-out.
## Soldering
This took me a few tries as it was my first time soldering, but after finding the value of a diagram, and Kapton tape, it came together nicely. While I have lost the diagram, it was just a sketch on paper, I wouldn't figure out how well flow chart makers worked for this until after soldering it.
## Flashing/Firmware
The firmware running on the pro micro is QMK, a fairly old standard for keyboards. As I had not used an Arduino before this project, I used [this site](https://kbfirmware.com/) to build the firmware. From there it was just a matter of getting it on the Arduino. I learned a lot about microcontrollers, for an Arduino pro micro, it turns out that to reset it, you need to bridge the RST and ground pins. Then you can start flashing it in the following ~2 second window. The program that worked for me was AVRDude/WinAvr, as its easier, I used AVRDUDESS, a gui for avr dude [A terminal-only program]. The programmer that worked for me was "Amtel AppNote AVR911 AVROSP".
## Keycaps
In the time between printing the case and finishing the firmware, I had gotten a Prusa with an MMU. (i3 MK3S+, MMU2S). With a .25 nozzel I can make keycaps with tiny ledgers or images on them. I found that when printing on a FFF machine, layer lines cause issues on the top surface. So I took a DSA profile keycap, and cut the top off just down to where there was no dip in the middle, then printed it upside-down. Because of how closely packed the switches are, ~20mm, you cant feel the slight edge, and if it ever does become something I want changed, PLA is easy to sand.

The keycap files were made in blender, I took an image of whatever logo I wanted, Dropbox, Atom, NVIM, etc. then made a 2d plane cut-out of a section of the model I wanted a different color (the chrome one needed 4 models). By extruding the model by .2mm (2 layers), then booleaning that ledger out of the top of the keycap, they could be printed as one unit in different colors. In prusaSlicer, with an mmu, I assigned the body of the keycap one color, and the ledger another, I just had to print it. I went with Prusament's Vanilla White PLA, and a Printed Solid transition roll that was a nice blue.
